Seth King
Professor Bolden
CS480 - Log Notes
16 March 2021

Today, I focused on parsing out some relevant contents from the given XML files and trying to run an open-source geoparser (Mordecai) on the resulting text files
In doing so, I encountered a number of obstacles that I'll need to work on throughout the coming week

I started out by trying to install Mordecai locally. This turned out to be a heavier lift than expected: Mordecai has quite a few dependencies, including some large ones 
like Tensorflow (the wheel of which is ~400MB). My machine wasn't able to build the NLP package from the dependency list
	- I'm not exactly sure what the specific cause of failure was for this. pip failed to build some of the larger wheels, and I'm not sure whether this is 
	because I'm using deprecated software somewhere, my device is out of storage (I'm running all of this on a WSL distro locally), or what.

After I failed to get Mordecai set up on my local machine, I shifted over to AWS and launched a t2.micro EC2 instance to try to run Mordecai on. My rationale for
selecting a t2.micro instance was mostly based on the fact that these instances are fairly cheap to run and won't run my AWS credits down too quickly. 

While I was launching the instance, I generated a key pair (.pem file) via the AWS console and downloaded it to my machine so that I can use SSH/SFTP with this 
EC2 instance. Since I use Putty as my SSH client, I had to convert the .pem file to a .ppk file using PuttyGen. Once this was done, I SSHed into the EC2 instance
and started installing all of the things that we'll need for testing out Mordecai. Once I got to Tensorflow, however, the EC2 isntance kept killing the install.
I suspect that this is just because I hit the storage on the T2.micro instance with all of the dependencies. 

So, now that I've tested out all of this, my next steps are to shut down the current EC2 istance and spin up a larger one to work with on the project. 
I will likely try this out tonight or tomorrow morning.

If Mordecai still doesn't install on a larger instance, then I'll try out a different Linux version (I'm currently using Ubuntu 20.04 LTS).

If, on the other hand, Mordecai DOES install, then my next steps will be to parse out some raw text content from the given article sets locally, use SFTP (specifically
WinSCP) to migrate those files to the EC2 instance along with any relevant scripts, and start testing out Mordecai for the extraction of place names. 

If I manage to get all of that done, then I may move on to investigate how to build and test binary classification models using Keras. The idea here would be that given
a place name (or given the location in a text where the place name was discovered), we could run an ML model to indicate whether or not that place name is the actual 
location where the study took place. In theory, then, the Mordecai geoparser could be combined with a simple binary classification model to extract and label the 
location where a study took place for a given article. That would be a good place to get to by the end of spring break, but may turn out to be overly ambitious. 

